[DOC-7536] Document folders in CockroachDB Cloud (#17625)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/folders.md

Your user account must have the following roles:

- [Org Administrator](authorization.html#org-administrator)

1. Sign in to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console.

1. From the **Organization** **Information** page, make a note of your organization's ID.

1. [Create a service account](managing-access.html#create-a-service-account) and grant it the following roles at the organization level: <ul><li>Organization Admin</li><li>Cluster Admin</li>

    When prompted, create an API key for the service account and make a note of it.

### Grant the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role to the service account

Folders inherit roles granted at the organization scope, and descendent folders inherit roles granted higher in the hierarchy.

To create folders and manage access to them, your service account must have the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role at the level of the organization.

1. To grant the role at the level of the organization:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request POST \
            --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/roles/<user-id>/ORGANIZATION/<organization_id>/FOLDER_ADMIN' \
            --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api_key>'
    ~~~

>     Replace:

Author: @nickvigilante I had to remove the blank line on line 97 to avoid the sub-list breaking the numbered list.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Create a cluster in a folder

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

- [Cluster Administrator](authorization.html#cluster-administrator) or [Cluster Creator](authorization.html#cluster-creator)
- [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin) or [Folder Mover](authorization.html#folder-mover)

To create a cluster in a folder, set the `parent_id` field to the ID of the folder.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you do not specify a `parent_id`, or if you set `parent_id` to `root`, the cluster is created at the level of the organization.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

For example, to create a {{ site.data.products.serverless }} deployed on GCP in a folder:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request POST \
     --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters' \
     --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
     --header 'content-type: application/json' \
     --data '{"name":"<cluster_name>","provider":"GCP","spec":{"serverless":{"regions":["us-central1"],"spend_limit":0}, "parent_id":"<parent_id>"}}'
~~~

> Replace:

Author: I had to add a blank line here or the bullet list was broken.

Reviewer: https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-8517

---
title: Organize CockroachDB Cloud Clusters Using Folders
summary: Learn how to use folders to organize CockroachDB Cloud clusters and manage access to them.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

{% include_cached feature-phases/limited-access.md %}

This page explains how to organize and manage access to your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization's clusters using folders. For more details about managing access to {{ site.data.products.db }} resources, refer to [Managing Users, Roles, and Service Accounts in {{ site.data.products.db }}](managing-access.html).

## How folders work

> By default, clusters are created at the level of the organization. Folders provide additional ways to organize clusters and manage access to them. A folder can contain both clusters and descendent folders.

Reviewer 2: nit: remove the word descendant because it seems like the focus of this sentence is what the children of a folder can be

Author: Done

> Each folder that you create has an ID. To create a cluster in a folder or to move a cluster into a folder, you set its `parent_id` field to the folder's ID. A folder can contain a mix of child folders and clusters.

Reviewer 2: The last sentence here is a dupe from the previous paragraph, so maybe keep one of them

Author: Done

If no parent ID is specified for a cluster, it is created at the level of the organization. Clusters and folders at the organization level have their `parent_id` set to `root`.

> {{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

Reviewer 2: I think we can simplify this paragraph to one sentence explaining that a move operation updates the parent ID of a resource, and then also touch on the conditions where the move fails. Also the last sentence isn't entirely accurate, only one resource is updated during any given move operation

Reviewer 3: +1.  Probably no need to mention that it's a lightweight operation, or any impl details.

Conditions where a move could fail include:
* Name collision: destination folder contains a folder with the same name (if moving a folder), or destination folder contains a cluster with the same name (if moving a cluster)  NOTE: a folder CAN have the same name as a cluster - that's allowed
* Sibling limits: destination folder is full (has hit the 200 resource limit)
* Depth limits: moving this folder would cause the destination to exceed the max allowable depth
* Structural limits: certain moves are illegal, such as moving a folder into itself, or moving a folder into one of its children

Author: Done

Moving a folder or cluster is a lightweight operation that involves updating only a single property. Operations that involve multiple resources, such as moving a folder that contains multiple clusters and folders, are atomic; if all resources are not updated successfully, the operation is rolled back.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Folder structure

Folders give you the flexibility to organize and manage access to your clusters using the structure that makes the most sense for your organization. Keep the following structural limitations in mind:

> - Folders can be nested a maximum of three levels deep, including the organization level.

Reviewer 2: +1

> - Folders can be nested a maximum of three levels deep, including the organization level.

Reviewer 3: +1

> - Folders can be nested a maximum of three levels deep, including the organization level.

Author: Done

>     In the following example, `Subfolder A` will be created successfully, but `Subfolder B2` will not, because it is nested too deeply:

Reviewer 3: +1

>     In the following example, `Subfolder A` will be created successfully, but `Subfolder B2` will not, because it is nested too deeply:

Author: Done

    ~~~
    root
      -- Folder A
          -- Subfolder A
      -- Folder B
          -- Subfolder B
            -- Subfolder B2
    ~~~

> - Each folder, including the root of the organization, can contain a maximum of 200 direct descendents, including folders or clusters.

Author: @nickvigilante Any idea what's going on here with the syntax highlighting in GitHub? I suspect it's not a real issue.

Operations that would violate these limitations result in an error.

### Folders and role assignment

A role granted on a folder is inherited on its descendent folders and clusters. All existing organizational roles, such as [Cluster Administrator](authorization.html#cluster-administrator) or [Cluster Creator](authorization.html#cluster-creator), can be granted at the folder scope.

A role granted directly on a cluster is unchanged if the cluster is moved into or out of a folder.

The following roles allow management of folders and their contents:

> - **Folder Admins** can fully manage the contents of a folder, including the ability to create, rename, and move, or delete its descendent folders and clusters and to manage access to them. This role can be granted at the level of the organization or on a specific folder. If granted on a specific folder, the role is inherited by descendent folders.

Reviewer 3: +1, Folder Admin can't manage clusters directly, they need to grant themselves Cluster Admin.

Folder Admins CAN move clusters, same as Folder Mover.

> - **Folder Admins** can fully manage the contents of a folder, including the ability to create, rename, and move, or delete its descendent folders and clusters and to manage access to them. This role can be granted at the level of the organization or on a specific folder. If granted on a specific folder, the role is inherited by descendent folders.

Reviewer 4: ack. thank you for the clarification regarding moving clusters/folders.

> - **Folder Admins** can fully manage the contents of a folder, including the ability to create, rename, and move, or delete its descendent folders and clusters and to manage access to them. This role can be granted at the level of the organization or on a specific folder. If granted on a specific folder, the role is inherited by descendent folders.

Author: Done

>     A user with the [Cluster Administrator](authorization.html#cluster-administrator) or [Org Administrator](authorization.html#org-administrator) role can grant themselves, another user, or a service account the Folder Admin role.

Reviewer 3: they cannot, at least on FOLDERS.  see above

>     A user with the [Cluster Administrator](authorization.html#cluster-administrator) or [Org Administrator](authorization.html#org-administrator) role can grant themselves, another user, or a service account the Folder Admin role.

Author: Done

    To create a cluster in a folder, the user or service account must also have the Cluster Administrator or [Cluster Creator](authorization.html#cluster-creator) role on that folder. To delete a cluster, the user or service account must have the Cluster Administrator role on the cluster directly or by inheritance.

> - **Folder Movers** can rename or move a folder's contents, but cannot create or delete folders or clusters, and cannot manage access to them. The Folder Mover role grants the ability to move clusters within the folder even if the user or service account does not have direct access to the cluster.

Reviewer 3: +1

Also, do we mean "move clusters between folders"?

> - **Folder Movers** can rename or move a folder's contents, but cannot create or delete folders or clusters, and cannot manage access to them. The Folder Mover role grants the ability to move clusters within the folder even if the user or service account does not have direct access to the cluster.

Author: Done

>     A user with the Cluster Administrator or the Folder Admin role can grant another user or a service account the Folder Mover role.

Author: Done

The remainder of this page shows how to create folders, manage access to them, and use them to organize your clusters.

## Initial setup

### Gather required information

Your user account must have the following roles:

- [Org Administrator](authorization.html#org-administrator)

1. Sign in to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console.

1. From the **Organization** **Information** page, make a note of your organization's ID.

1. [Create a service account](managing-access.html#create-a-service-account) and grant it the following roles at the organization level: <ul><li>Organization Admin</li><li>Cluster Admin</li>

    When prompted, create an API key for the service account and make a note of it.

### Grant the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role to the service account

Folders inherit roles granted at the organization scope, and descendent folders inherit roles granted higher in the hierarchy.

To create folders and manage access to them, your service account must have the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role at the level of the organization.

1. To grant the role at the level of the organization:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request POST \

>            --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/roles/<user-id>/ORGANIZATION/<organization_id>/FOLDER_ADMIN' \

Reviewer 2: * Should make it clear the the API Key needed here is the key associated with a role granter service account (not the service account that is being granted the folder admin role)
* Maybe make it explicit that the user ID here is the service account ID which can be found in the service account page URL
* This is the staging url, should be the prod url: https://cockroachlabs.cloud

Author: Done

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request GET \
           --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/folders/root/contents' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api_key>'
    ~~~

    Replace `<api-key>` with your service account's API key.

1. To list the clusters and folders contained within another folder, specify its ID instead of `root`:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request GET \
           --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/folders/<folder_id>/contents' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api_key>'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<folder-id>`: The ID of a folder.
    - `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
In the API, each folder is referred to by its ID, regardless of where it is located in the hierarchy.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Create a cluster in a folder

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

- [Cluster Administrator](authorization.html#cluster-administrator) or [Cluster Creator](authorization.html#cluster-creator)

> - [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin) or [Folder Mover](authorization.html#folder-mover)

Reviewer 4: @mdlinville a user should only need one of the Cluster Roles mentioned above either at the org or the folder, they don't need Folder roles in order to create clusters in a folder.

Author: Done

To create a cluster in a folder, set the `parent_id` field to the ID of the folder.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you do not specify a `parent_id`, or if you set `parent_id` to `root`, the cluster is created at the level of the organization.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

For example, to create a {{ site.data.products.serverless }} deployed on GCP in a folder:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request POST \
       --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters' \
       --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
       --header 'content-type: application/json' \
       --data '{"name":"<cluster_name>","provider":"GCP","spec":{"serverless":{"regions":["us-central1"],"spend_limit":0}, "parent_id":"<parent_id>"}}'
~~~

Replace:

- `<cluster_name>`: A name for the cluster. Replace `<parent_id>` with the ID of the folder.
- `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.
- `<parent-id>`: The ID of a folder.

## Move a cluster into or out of a folder

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

> - [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin) or [Folder Mover](authorization.html#folder-mover)

Reviewer 4: @mdlinville they need Folder Mover in order to move the Folder. I believe Folder Admin can't move them but @jason-crl @cameronnunez can confirm.

Reviewer 4: Also, they need to have the role at the destination and the source folders.

Author: Done

           --header 'content-type: application/json' \
           --data '{"parent_id":"<parent_id>"}'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<cluster-id>`: The ID of a cluster.
    - `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.
    - `<parent-id>`: The ID of a folder.

1. To move a cluster out of a folder to the organization level:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request PATCH \
           --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/<cluster-id>' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
           --header 'content-type: application/json' \
           --data '{"parent_id":"root"}'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<cluster-id>`: The ID of a cluster.
    - `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
When you move a cluster into or out of a folder, users or service accounts who had access to the previous location through inheritance may lose access. Roles granted directly on a cluster do not change when the cluster is moved.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Move a folder into another folder

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

> - [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin) or [Folder Mover](authorization.html#folder-mover)

Reviewer 4: @mdlinville same as above, should be just Folder Mover. Need the team to confirm.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request PATCH \
           --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/folders/<folder-id>' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
           --header 'content-type: application/json' \
           --data '{"parent_id":"<parent_id>"}'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<folder-id>`: The ID of the folder.
    - `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.
    - `<parent-id>`: The ID of the new parent folder.

## Delete a folder

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

- [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Only an empty folder can be deleted.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

To delete a folder:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request DELETE \
       --url 'https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/folders/<folder-id>' \
       --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
       --header 'content-type: application/json'
~~~

Replace:

- `<folder-id>`: The ID of the folder.
- `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.

## Limitations

> - Folders can be nested a maximum of three levels deep, including the organization level.

Reviewer 4: @mdlinville same as above, not including the org level. Org > Folder 1 > Folder 2 > Folder 3 is how deep they can go.

Author: Done

---
title: Organize CockroachDB Cloud Clusters Using Folders
summary: Learn how to use folders to organize CockroachDB Cloud clusters and manage access to them.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

{% include_cached feature-phases/limited-access.md %}

This page explains how to organize and manage access to your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization's clusters using folders. For more details about managing access to {{ site.data.products.db }} resources, refer to [Managing Users, Roles, and Service Accounts in {{ site.data.products.db }}](managing-access.html).

## How folders work

> Folders provide additional ways to organize clusters and manage access to them. A folder can contain a mix of folders and clusters. Roles assigned on a folder are inherited by its descendants.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Folders provide a way to organize clusters and manage access to them. A folder can contain a mix of folders and clusters. Roles assigned on a folder are inherited by its descendants.
```

Additional to what? If there's not another way of organizing clusters, use the suggested edit and remove.

Each folder that you create has an ID. To create a cluster in a folder or to move a cluster into a folder, you set its `parent_id` field to the folder's ID.

> If no parent ID is specified for a cluster, it is created at the level of the organization. Clusters and folders at the organization level have their `parent_id` set to `root`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If no parent ID is specified for a cluster, it is created at the root level of the organization. Clusters and folders at the organization level have their `parent_id` set to `root`.
```

nit. Root level? Base level? Top level? I feel like this needs a little clarification, but feel free to disregard.

Author: It is called `root` but it is also at the root of the organization, if you consider folders to be branches. I think it's OK with your suggestion.

To move a folder or a cluster, you update its `parent_id`. If you move a folder that contains descendent resources, the descendent resources are not modified. If a folder move operation fails, it is rolled back. A folder operation may fail in the following circumstances:

> - A naming collision, such as an attempt to move a folder into a location that already contains a folder with the same name. A folder and cluster at the same level of the hierarchy can share a name.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- A naming collision, such as an attempt to move a folder into a location that already contains a folder with the same name. Name collisions are limited to other folders. A folder and cluster at the same level of the hierarchy can share a name.
```

- A violation of the [folder structure](#folder-structure) limitations.
- An attempt to move a folder into itself or into one of its descendent folders.

### Folder structure

Folders give you the flexibility to organize and manage access to your clusters using the structure that makes the most sense for your organization. Keep the following structural limitations in mind:

> - Folders can be nested a maximum of four levels deep, including the organization level.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Folders can be nested a maximum of four levels deep, including the root organization level.
```

>     In the following scenario, `Subfolder B3` will not be created, because it is nested too deeply:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    In the following scenario, `Subfolder B3` cannot be created, because it is nested too deeply:
```

    ~~~
    root
      -- Folder A
          -- Subfolder A
      -- Folder B
          -- Subfolder B
            -- Subfolder B2
              -- Subfolder B3
    ~~~

- Each folder, including the root of the organization, can contain a maximum of 200 direct descendants, including folders or clusters.

> Operations that would violate these limitations result in an error.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Operations that violate these limitations result in an error.
```

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    A cluster cannot be renamed.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

    A user with the Org Administrator or Folder Admin role can grant another user or a service account the Folder Mover role. Because the Folder Admin role is a superset of Folder Mover, there is no need for a Folder Admin to grant themselves the Folder Mover role.

The remainder of this page shows how to create folders, manage access to them, and use them to organize your clusters.

## Initial setup

### Gather required information

Your user account must have the following roles to create a service account and grant roles at the organization scope:

- [Org Administrator](authorization.html#org-administrator)

1. Sign in to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console.

1. From the **Organization** **Information** page, make a note of your organization's ID.

> 1. [Create a service account](managing-access.html#create-a-service-account) and grant it the Organization Admin role. When prompted, create an API key for the service account and make a note of it. In the service account's **Details** page, make a note of the service account's ID, which is the portion of the URL after the last `/` character.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. [Create a service account](managing-access.html#create-a-service-account) and grant it the Organization Admin role. When prompted, create an API key for the service account and copy it to a secure location. In the service account's **Details** page, make a note of the service account's ID, which is the portion of the URL after the last `/` character.
```

    This service account will be referred to as the _provisioning service account_ in the remainder of this page.

> 1. Create a second service account and grant it the Cluster Admin role. This service account will be referred to as the folder-management service account. When prompted, create an API key for the service account and make a note of it. In the service account's **Details** page, make a note of the service account's ID, which is the portion of the URL after the last `/` character.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Create a second service account and grant it the Cluster Admin role. This service account will be referred to as the folder-management service account. When prompted, create an API key for the service account and copy it to a secure location. In the service account's **Details** page, make a note of the service account's ID, which is the portion of the URL after the last `/` character.
```

    This service account will be referred to as the _folder-management service account_ in the remainder of this page.

### Grant the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role to the service account

Folders inherit roles granted at the organization scope, and descendent folders inherit roles granted higher in the hierarchy.

During Limited Access, it is not possible to use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console to grant the Folder Admin or Folder Mover roles.
Instead, use the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.db }} API and the provisioning service account you created in [Gather required information](#gather-required-information) to grant the folder-management service account the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role at the level of the organization.

1. To grant the role at the level of the organization:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request POST \
           --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/roles/<folder-management-service-account-id>/ORGANIZATION/<organization_id>/FOLDER_ADMIN' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <provisioning_service_account_api-key>'
    ~~~

    Replace:

>     - `<folder-management-service-account-id>`: the ID of the user or service account being granted the role.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest the following here:

- `<service_account_id>`: the service account ID (the role grantee)
- `<organization_id>`:your organization's ID.
- `<api_key>`: the role granter's API Key (not the API Key of the role grantee)

Author: Done

    - `<organization_id>`:your organization's ID.
    - `<provisioning_service_account_api-key>`: The API key of a service account with the Org Admininstrator role.

    After your desired folder structure is in place, you could revoke the role from the organization and grant it on individual folders instead. A recommended security practice is to limit the users or service accounts with `FOLDER_ADMIN` at the level of the organization. When you [create a folder](#create-a-folder-and-grant-access-to-it), you can grant the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role at the level of the folder.

1. To revoke the role at the level of the organization:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request DELETE \
           --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/roles/<user-id>/ORGANIZATION/<organization_id>/FOLDER_ADMIN' \
           --header 'Authorization: <api-key>'
    ~~~

>     Replace:

Reviewer 2: I would suggest the following here:

- `<service-account-id>`: the service account ID (the role grantee)
- `<organization_id>`:your organization's ID.
- `<api-key>`: the role granter's API Key (not the API Key of the role grantee)

Author: Done

    - `<user-id>`: the ID of the user or service account from whom to revoke the role.
    - `<organization_id>`:your organization's ID.
    - `<api-key>`: The API key of a service account with the Org Admininstrator role.

1. Optionally, you can now delete the provisioning service account. In the remainder of this page, replace `<api-key>` with the API key for the folder-management service account.

## Create a folder and grant access to it

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

- [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin)

> 1. To create a folder at the organization level, set its `parent_id` field to `root`:

Reviewer 2: nit: also note that they can leave the `parent_id` field blank

Author: Done

           --data '{"name" : "<folder_name>", "parent_id": "root"}'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<folder_name>`: a name for the folder.
    - `<api-key>`: your service account's API key.

    The response includes the new folder's ID.

1. To create a descendent folder within a folder, set `parent_id` to the folder's ID:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request POST \
           --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/folders' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
           --data '{"name" : "<folder_name>", "parent_id": "<parent_id>"}'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<folder_name>`: a name for the folder.
    - `<api-key>`: your service account's API key.
    - `<parent-id>`: the ID of the folder that will contain the new folder.

1. To grant your service account the `FOLDER_ADMIN` role on a folder and its descendent folders:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request POST \
           --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/roles/<service-account-id>/FOLDER/<folder-id>/FOLDER_ADMIN' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>'
    ~~~

>     Replace:

Reviewer 2: I would suggest the following here:
Replace:
- `<service-account-id>`: the service account ID (the role grantee)
- `<folder-id>` with the ID of the folder
- `<api-key>`: the role granter's API Key (not the API Key of the role grantee)

Author: Done

    - `<service-account-id>`: The ID of the service account you created in [Gather Required Information](#gather-required-information).
    - `<folder-id>` with the ID of the folder.
    - `<api-key>`: your service account's API key.

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    You can also grant the role to a human user. However, during Limited Access, only a service account using the {{ site.data.products.db }} API or Terraform provider can manage folders.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. If you grant the role at the level of the organization, it is inherited on all folders. To give your service account the `FOLDER_MOVER` role at the organization level:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request POST \
           --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/roles/<service-account-id>/ORGANIZATION/<organization-id>/FOLDER_ADMIN' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>'
    ~~~

>     Replace:

Reviewer 2: I would suggest the following here:
Replace:
    - `<service-account-id>`: the service account ID (the role grantee)
    - `<organization-id>` with the ID you gathered in [Gather Required Information](#gather-required-information).
    - `<api-key>`: the role granter's API Key (not the API Key of the role grantee)

Author: DOne

    - `<service-account-id>`: your service account's ID.
    - `<organization-id>` with the ID you gathered in [Gather Required Information](#gather-required-information).
    - `<api-key>`: your service account's API key.

To access a folder's clusters, a user or service account must also have the Cluster Administrator, Cluster Creator, or Cluster Operator role on the folder. The role may be granted by inheritance or directly on a cluster.

## List folder contents

Your service account must have the following roles on the organization, the folder, or by inheritance:

> - To list descendent folders: [Org Administrator](authorization.html#org-administrator), [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin) or [Folder Mover](authorization.html#folder-mover).

Reviewer 2: So this part is pretty important: cluster roles grant you permission to view folders. So I would rework this section. 

To list the children of a folder, you must have a folder role OR cluster role on the target folder. E.g. if you have Cluster Developer on Folder A, you can view Folder A AND all descendants.

Author: Done

- [Cluster Administrator](authorization.html#cluster-administrator) or [Cluster Creator](authorization.html#cluster-creator)

To create a cluster in a folder, set the `parent_id` field to the ID of the folder.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you do not specify a `parent_id`, or if you set `parent_id` to `root`, the cluster is created at the level of the organization.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

For example, to create a {{ site.data.products.serverless }} deployed on GCP in a folder:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request POST \
       --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters' \
       --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
       --header 'content-type: application/json' \
       --data '{"name":"<cluster_name>","provider":"GCP","spec":{"serverless":{"regions":["us-central1"],"spend_limit":0}, "parent_id":"<parent_id>"}}'
~~~

Replace:

- `<cluster_name>`: A name for the cluster. Replace `<parent_id>` with the ID of the folder.
- `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.
- `<parent-id>`: The ID of a folder.

## Move a cluster into or out of a folder

> Your service account must have the following roles on the organization or on both the source and destination locations:

Reviewer 2: nit: maybe replace "roles" with "the move permission", which is via the Folder Admin or Folder Mover role

Author: I think "the move permission" sounds more mysterious than just listing which roles are sufficient to do the action. WDYT? Is it incorrect as written?

Reviewer 2: AFAIK IAM docs usually discuss not just roles but permissions as well. I see no harm in it, but this is a nitpick so I'll leave it to you

Author: Done

- [Folder Admin](authorization.html#folder-admin) or [Folder Mover](authorization.html#folder-mover)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Folder Movers can move clusters within the folder hierarchy even if they do not have a role that allows them to connect to the cluster, such as Cluster Creator or Cluster Operator.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. To move a cluster from the organization level into a folder, or to move it from one folder to another:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request PATCH \

>            --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/136cf380-91b1-48ff-9393-966ab10d946f' \

Reviewer 2: nit: `<cluster_id>` instead of a real ID

Author: Done

>            --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/136cf380-91b1-48ff-9393-966ab10d946f' \

Author: ```suggestion
           --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/<cluster-id>' \
```

           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
           --header 'content-type: application/json' \
           --data '{"parent_id":"<parent_id>"}'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<cluster-id>`: The ID of a cluster.
    - `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.
    - `<parent-id>`: The ID of a folder.

1. To move a cluster out of a folder to the organization level:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    curl --request PATCH \
           --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/<cluster-id>' \
           --header 'Authorization: Bearer <api-key>' \
           --header 'content-type: application/json' \
           --data '{"parent_id":"root"}'
    ~~~

    Replace:
    - `<cluster-id>`: The ID of a cluster.
    - `<api-key>`: Your service account's API key.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
When you move a cluster into or out of a folder, users or service accounts who had access to the previous location through inheritance may lose access. Roles granted directly on a cluster do not change when the cluster is moved.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Move a folder into another folder

> Your service account must have the following roles on the organization or on both the source and destination locations:

Reviewer 2: replace "roles" with "the move permission", which is via the Folder Admin or Folder Mover role

Author: Again, it seems more clear to just list the roles that are sufficient.

Author: Done.

---
title: Organize CockroachDB Cloud Clusters Using Folders
summary: Learn how to use folders to organize CockroachDB Cloud clusters and manage access to them.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

{% include_cached feature-phases/limited-access.md %}

This page explains how to organize and manage access to your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization's clusters using folders. For more details about managing access to {{ site.data.products.db }} resources, refer to [Managing Users, Roles, and Service Accounts in {{ site.data.products.db }}](managing-access.html).

## How folders work

Folders provide a way to organize clusters and manage access to them. A folder can contain a mix of folders and clusters. Roles assigned on a folder are inherited by its descendants.

Each folder that you create has an ID. To create a cluster in a folder or to move a cluster into a folder, you set its `parent_id` field to the folder's ID.

If no parent ID is specified for a cluster, it is created at the root level of the organization. Clusters and folders at the organization level have their `parent_id` set to `root`.

> To move a folder or a cluster, you update its `parent_id`. If you move a folder that contains descendent resources, the descendent resources are not modified. If a folder move operation fails, it is rolled back. A folder operation may fail in the following circumstances:

Reviewer 2: nit: I would remove the "rolled back" sentence. The operation doesn't happen unless the correct circumstances are met

- A naming collision, such as an attempt to move a folder into a location that already contains a folder with the same name. Name collisions are limited to other folders. A folder and cluster at the same level of the hierarchy can share a name.
- A violation of the [folder structure](#folder-structure) limitations.
- An attempt to move a folder into itself or into one of its descendent folders.

### Folder structure

Folders give you the flexibility to organize and manage access to your clusters using the structure that makes the most sense for your organization. Keep the following structural limitations in mind:

- Folders can be nested a maximum of four levels deep, including the root organization level.

    In the following scenario, `Subfolder B3` cannot be created, because it is nested too deeply:

    ~~~
    root
      -- Folder A
          -- Subfolder A
      -- Folder B
          -- Subfolder B
            -- Subfolder B2

>               -- Subfolder B3

Reviewer 2: This Folder B ancestry line is too deep. The max depth is 3 from the root, 4 if you include the root "imaginary folder" as a level. So I would remove Subfolder B3

Author: Discussed offline. I've added a cluster to illustrate the extra rule at the deepest level.

    ~~~

> - Each folder, including the root of the organization, can contain a maximum of 200 direct descendants, including folders or clusters.

Reviewer 2: nit: inconsistent use of "descendant" versus "descendent". I would probably standardize on "descendant" throughout since that's the more common form of the word
